Add documentation for failure stores. (#1368)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/data-store/data-streams/failure-store-recipes.md

## Troubleshooting nested ingest pipelines [failure-store-recipes-nested-ingest-troubleshoot]

When a document fails in an ingest pipeline it can be difficult to figure out exactly what when wrong and where. When these failures are captured by the failure store during this part of the ingestion process, they will contain additional debugging information. Failed documents will note the type of processor and which pipeline was executing when the failure occurred. Failed documents will also contain a pipeline trace which keeps track of any nested pipeline calls that the document was in at time of failure.

To demonstrate this, we will follow a failed document through an unfamiliar data stream and ingest pipeline:
```console
POST my-datastream-ingest/_doc
{
    "@timestamp": "2025-04-21T00:00:00Z",
    "important": {
      "info": "The rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain"
    }
}
```

```console-result
{
  "_index": ".fs-my-datastream-ingest-2025.05.09-000001",
  "_id": "F3S3s5YBwrYNjPmayMr9",
  "_version": 1,
  "result": "created",
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "_seq_no": 2,
  "_primary_term": 1,

>   "failure_store": "used" // The document was sent to the failure store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "failure_store": "used" // The document was sent to the failure store.
```

              "important": {
                "info": "The rain in Spain falls mainly on the plain" // The important info that we failed to find was originally present on the document.
              },
              "@timestamp": "2025-04-21T00:00:00Z"
            }
          },
          "error": {
            "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
            "message": "field [info] not present as part of path [important.info]", // The info field was not present when the failure occurred.
            "stack_trace": """j.l.IllegalArgumentException: field [info] not present as part of path [important.info]
	at o.e.i.IngestDocument.getFieldValue(IngestDocument.java:202)
	at o.e.i.c.SetProcessor.execute(SetProcessor.java:86)
	... 19 more
""",
            "pipeline_trace": [ // The first pipeline called the second pipeline.
              "ingest-step-1",
              "ingest-step-2"
            ],
            "pipeline": "ingest-step-2", // The document failed in the second pipeline.
            "processor_type": "set" // It failed in the pipeline's set processor.
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

> Despite not knowing the pipelines beforehand, we have some places to start looking. The `ingest-step-2` pipeline cannot find the `important.info` field despite it being present on the document that was sent to the cluster. If we pull that pipeline definition we find the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Despite not knowing the pipelines beforehand, we have some places to start looking. The `ingest-step-2` pipeline cannot find the `important.info` field despite it being present in the document that was sent to the cluster. If we pull that pipeline definition we find the following:
```
Global comment: I think 'in' makes more sense than 'on' when referring to the contents of a document.

Here we have a needlessly complicated pipeline. It is made up of several set and remove processors. Beneficially, they are all tagged with descriptive names.
```console
PUT _ingest/pipeline/complicated-processor
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "set": {
        "tag": "initialize counter",
        "field": "counter",
        "value": "1"
      }
    },
    {
      "set": {
        "tag": "copy counter to new",
        "field": "new_counter",
        "copy_from": "counter"
      }
    },
    {
      "remove": {
        "tag": "remove old counter",
        "field": "counter"
      }
    },
    {
      "set": {
        "tag": "transfer counter back",
        "field": "counter",
        "copy_from": "new_counter"
      }
    },
    {
      "remove": {
        "tag": "remove counter again",
        "field": "counter"
      }
    },
    {
      "set": {
        "tag": "copy to new counter again",
        "field": "new_counter",
        "copy_from": "counter"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

> We ingest some data and find that it was sent to the failure store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We ingest some data and find that it was sent to the failure store.
```

```console
POST my-datastream-ingest/_doc?pipeline=complicated-processor
{
    "@timestamp": "2025-04-21T00:00:00Z",
    "counter_name": "test"
}
```

```console-result
{
  "_index": ".fs-my-datastream-ingest-2025.05.09-000001",
  "_id": "HnTJs5YBwrYNjPmaFcri",
  "_version": 1,
  "result": "created",
  "_shards": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "_seq_no": 1,
  "_primary_term": 1,
  "failure_store": "used"
}
```

> Upon checking the failure, we can quickly identify the tagged processor that caused the problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On checking the failure, we can quickly identify the tagged processor that caused the problem.
```

    "skipped": 0,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "hits": {
    "total": {
      "value": 1,
      "relation": "eq"
    },
    "max_score": 1,
    "hits": [
      {
        "_index": ".fs-my-datastream-ingest-2025.05.09-000001",
        "_id": "HnTJs5YBwrYNjPmaFcri",
        "_score": 1,
        "_source": {
          "@timestamp": "2025-05-09T06:41:24.775Z",
          "document": {
            "index": "my-datastream-ingest",
            "source": {
              "@timestamp": "2025-04-21T00:00:00Z",
              "counter_name": "test"
            }
          },
          "error": {
            "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
            "message": "field [counter] not present as part of path [counter]",
            "stack_trace": """j.l.IllegalArgumentException: field [counter] not present as part of path [counter]
	at o.e.i.IngestDocument.getFieldValue(IngestDocument.java:202)
	at o.e.i.c.SetProcessor.execute(SetProcessor.java:86)
	... 14 more
""",
            "pipeline_trace": [
              "complicated-processor"
            ],
            "pipeline": "complicated-processor",
            "processor_type": "set", // Helpful, but which set processor on the pipeline could it be?

>             "processor_tag": "copy to new counter again" // The tag of the exact processor that it failed on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            "processor_tag": "copy to new counter again" // The tag of the exact processor that the document failed on.
```

          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

Without tags in place it would not be as clear where in the pipeline we encountered the problem. Tags provide a unique identifier for a processor that can be quickly referenced in case of an ingest failure.

## Alerting on failed ingestion [failure-store-recipes-alerting]

> Since failure stores can be searched just like a normal data stream, we can use them as inputs to [alerting rules](./failure-store.md) in Kibana. Here is a simple alerting example to trigger on more than ten failures in the last five minutes for a data stream:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since failure stores can be searched just like a normal data stream, we can use them as inputs to [alerting rules](./failure-store.md) in Kibana. Here is a simple alerting example that is triggered when more than ten indexing failures have occurred in the last five minutes for a data stream:
```
maybe this reads a wee bit better?

:::
::::

::::{step} Test
Configure schedule, actions, and details of the alert before saving the rule.

:::{image} /manage-data/images/elasticsearch-reference-management_failure_store_alerting_finish.png
:alt: complete the rule configuration and save it
:::
::::

::::{step} Done
::::

:::::

## Data remediation [failure-store-recipes-remediation]

If you've encountered a long span of ingestion failures you may find that a sizeable gap of events has appeared in your data stream. If the failure store is enabled, the documents that should fill those gaps would be tucked away in the data stream's failure store. Because failure stores are made up of regular indices and the failure documents contain the document source that failed, the failure documents can often times be replayed into your production data streams.

::::{warning}
Care should be taken when replaying data into a data stream from a failure store. Any failures during the replay process may generate new failures in the failure store which can duplicate and obscure the original events.
::::

We recommend a few best practices for remediating failure data.

> **Separate your failures beforehand.** As described in the [failure document source](#use-failure-store-document-source) section above, failure documents are structured differently depending on when the document failed during ingestion. We recommend to separate documents by ingest pipeline failures and indexing failures at minimum. Ingest pipeline failures often need to have the original pipeline re-executed, while index failures should skip any pipelines. Further separating failures by index or specific failure type may also be beneficial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Separate your failures beforehand.** As described in the [failure document source](#use-failure-store-document-source) section above, failure documents are structured differently depending on when the document failed during ingestion. We recommend to separate documents by ingest pipeline failures and indexing failures at minimum. Ingest pipeline failures often need to have the original pipeline re-run, while index failures should skip any pipelines. Further separating failures by index or specific failure type may also be beneficial.
```
we generally avoid `executed` in favour of `run`.

**Perform a failure store rollover.** Consider rolling over the failure store before attempting to remediate failures. This will create a new failure index that will collect any new failures during the remediation process.

> **Use an ingest pipeline to convert failure documents back into their original document.** Failure documents store failure information along with the document that failed ingestion. The first step for remediating documents should be to use an ingest pipeline to extract the original source from the failure document and discard any other info on it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Use an ingest pipeline to convert failure documents back into their original document.** Failure documents store failure information along with the document that failed ingestion. The first step for remediating documents should be to use an ingest pipeline to extract the original source from the failure document and then discard any other information about the failure.
```
I'm not sure if I've got it right. I thought we could be explicit about what 'it' is in this case.

> **Simulate first to avoid repeat failures.** If you must execute a pipeline as part of your remediation process, it is best to simulate the pipeline against the failure first. This will catch any unforeseen issues that may fail the document a second time. Remember, ingest pipeline failures will capture the document before an ingest pipeline was applied to it, which can further complicate remediation when a failure document becomes nested inside a new failure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Simulate first to avoid repeat failures.** If you must run a pipeline as part of your remediation process, it is best to simulate the pipeline against the failure first. This will catch any unforeseen issues that may fail the document a second time. Remember, ingest pipeline failures will capture the document before an ingest pipeline is applied to it, which can further complicate remediation when a failure document becomes nested inside a new failure.
```
rather than `will` capture and `was` applied, maybe we use future and present tense here.

          "@timestamp": "2025-05-01T15:58:53.522Z", <1>
          "document": {
            "index": "my-datastream-ingest-example",
            "source": {
              "@timestamp": "2025-05-01T00:00:00Z",
              "data": {
                "counter": 42 <2>
              }
            }
          },
          "error": {
            "type": "illegal_argument_exception",
            "message": "field [id] not present as part of path [data.id]", <3>
            "stack_trace": """j.l.IllegalArgumentException: field [id] not present as part of path [data.id]
	at o.e.i.IngestDocument.getFieldValue(IngestDocument.java:202)
	at o.e.i.c.SetProcessor.execute(SetProcessor.java:86)
	... 14 more
""",
            "pipeline_trace": [
              "my-datastream-default-pipeline"
            ],
            "pipeline": "my-datastream-default-pipeline", <4>
            "processor_type": "set"
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
1. This document is what we'll use for our simulations.
2. It had a counter value.
3. The document was missing a required field.
4. The document failed in the `my-data-stream-default-pipeline`
   ::::

::::{step} Fix the original problem

> Because ingest pipeline failures need to be reprocessed by their original pipelines, any problems with those pipeline should be fixed before remediating failures. Investigating the pipeline mentioned in the example above shows that there is a processor that expects a field to be present that is not always present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because ingest pipeline failures need to be reprocessed by their original pipelines, any problems with those pipelines should be fixed before remediating failures. Investigating the pipeline mentioned in the example above shows that there is a processor that expects a field to be present that is not always present.
```

            "stack_trace": """j.l.IllegalArgumentException: field [id] not present as part of path [data.id]
	at o.e.i.IngestDocument.getFieldValue(IngestDocument.java:202)
	at o.e.i.c.SetProcessor.execute(SetProcessor.java:86)
	... 14 more
""",
            "pipeline_trace": [
              "my-datastream-default-pipeline"
            ],
            "pipeline": "my-datastream-default-pipeline",
            "processor_type": "set"
          }
        }
      }
  ]
}
```
1. The contents of the remediation pipeline written in the previous step.
2. The contents of an example failure document we identified in the previous steps.

```console-result
{
  "docs": [
    {
      "doc": {
        "_index": "my-datastream-ingest-example", <1>
        "_version": "-3",
        "_id": "cOnR2ZYByIwDXH-g6GpR", <2>
        "_source": { <3>
          "data": {
            "counter": 42
          },
          "@timestamp": "2025-05-01T00:00:00Z"
        },
        "_ingest": {
          "timestamp": "2025-05-01T20:58:03.566210529Z"
        }
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
1. The index has been updated via the reroute processor.
2. The id has stayed the same.

> 3. The source should cleanly match what the original document should have been.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The source should cleanly match the contents of the original document.
```
Just a suggestion, as 'should have been' may be a bit open ended. :-)

              "data": {
                "counter": 37
              }
            }
          },
          "error": {
            "type": "document_parsing_exception", <3>
            "message": "[1:40] failed to parse: data stream timestamp field [@timestamp] is missing",
            "stack_trace": """o.e.i.m.DocumentParsingException: [1:40] failed to parse: data stream timestamp field [@timestamp] is missing
	at o.e.i.m.DocumentParser.wrapInDocumentParsingException(DocumentParser.java:265)
	at o.e.i.m.DocumentParser.internalParseDocument(DocumentParser.java:162)
	... 19 more
Caused by: j.l.IllegalArgumentException: data stream timestamp field [@timestamp] is missing
	at o.e.i.m.DataStreamTimestampFieldMapper.extractTimestampValue(DataStreamTimestampFieldMapper.java:210)
	at o.e.i.m.DataStreamTimestampFieldMapper.postParse(DataStreamTimestampFieldMapper.java:223)
	... 20 more
"""
          }
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```
1. This document is what we'll use for our simulations.
2. The document was missing a required `@timestamp` field.
3. The document failed with a `document_parsing_exception` because of the missing timestamp.

::::

::::{step} Fix the original problem

> There are a broad set of possible indexing failures. Most of these problems stem from incorrect values for a particular mapping. Sometimes a large number of new fields are dynamically mapped and the maximum number of mapping fields is reached and no more can be added. In our example above, the document being indexed is missing a required timestamp.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a broad set of possible indexing failures. Most of these problems stem from incorrect values for a particular mapping. Sometimes a large number of new fields are dynamically mapped and the maximum number of mapping fields is reached, so no more can be added. In our example above, the document being indexed is missing a required timestamp.
```

```console
PUT _ingest/pipeline/my-datastream-remediation-pipeline
{
  "processors": [
    {
      "script": {
      "lang": "painless",
      "source": """
          ctx._index = ctx.document.index; <1>
          ctx._routing = ctx.document.routing;
          def s = ctx.document.source; <2>
          ctx.remove("error"); <3>
          ctx.remove("document"); <4>
          for (e in s.entrySet()) { <5>
            ctx[e.key] = e.value;
          }"""
      }
    }
  ]
}
```
1. Copy the original index name from the failure document over into the document's metadata. If you use custom document routing, copy that over too.
2. Capture the source of the original document.
3. Discard the `error` field since it wont be needed for the remediation.
4. Also discard the `document` field.
5. We extract all the fields from the original document's source back to the root of the document. The `@timestamp` field is not overwritten and thus will be present in the final document.

:::{important}

> Remember that a document that has failed during indexing has already been processed by the ingest processor! It shouldn't need to be processed again unless you made changes to your pipeline to fix the original problem. Make sure that any fixes applied to the ingest pipeline is reflected in the pipeline logic here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that a document that has failed during indexing has already been processed by the ingest processor! It shouldn't need to be processed again unless you made changes to your pipeline to fix the original problem. Make sure that any fixes applied to the ingest pipeline are reflected in the pipeline logic here.
```

Combine the remediation pipeline with the failure store query together in a [reindex operation](./failure-store.md) to replay the failures.

```console
POST _reindex
{
  "source": {
    "index": "my-datastream-indexing-example::failures", <1>
    "query": {
      "bool": { <2>
        "must_not": [
          {
            "exists": {
              "field": "error.pipeline"
            }
          }
        ],
        "must": [
          {
            "match": {
              "document.index": "my-datastream-indexing-example"
            }
          },
          {
            "match": {
              "error.type": "document_parsing_exception"
            }
          },
          {
            "range": {
              "@timestamp": {
                "gt": "2025-05-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lte": "2025-05-28T19:00:00Z"
              }
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "my-datastream-indexing-example", <3>
    "op_type": "create",
    "pipeline": "my-datastream-remediation-pipeline" <4>
  }
}
```
1. Read from the failure store.
2. Only reindex failure documents that match the ones we are replaying.

> 3. Set the destination to the data stream the failures originally were sent to. The remediation pipeline above updates the index to be the correct one, but a destination is still required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Set the destination to the data stream the failures originally were sent to. The remediation pipeline in the example updates the index to be the correct one, but a destination is still required.
```

            }
          },
          {
            "match": {
              "error.type": "illegal_argument_exception"
            }
          },
          {
            "range": {
              "@timestamp": {
                "gt": "2025-05-01T00:00:00Z",
                "lte": "2025-05-17T00:00:00Z"
              }
            }
          }
        ]
      }
    }
  },
  "dest": {
    "index": "my-datastream-ingest-example", <3>
    "op_type": "create",
    "pipeline": "my-datastream-remediation-pipeline" <4>
  }
}
```
1. Read from the failure store.
2. Only reindex failure documents that match the ones we are replaying.
3. Set the destination to the data stream the failures originally were sent to.
4. Replace the pipeline with the remediation pipeline.

```console-result
{
  "took": 469,
  "timed_out": false,
  "total": 1,
  "updated": 0,
  "created": 1, <1>
  "deleted": 0,
  "batches": 1,
  "version_conflicts": 0,
  "noops": 0,
  "retries": {
    "bulk": 0,
    "search": 0
  },
  "throttled_millis": 0,
  "requests_per_second": -1,
  "throttled_until_millis": 0,
  "failures": []
}
```
1. The failures have been remediated.

:::{tip}

> Since the failure store is enabled on this data stream, it would be wise to check it for any further failures from the reindexing process. Failures that happen at this point in the process may end up as nested failures in the failure store. Remediating nested failures can quickly become a hassle as the original document gets nested multiple levels deep in the failure document. For this reason, it is suggested to remediate data during a quiet period when no other failures are likely to arise. Furthermore, rolling over the failure store before executing the remediation would allow easier discarding of any new nested failures and only operate on the original failure documents.

Reviewer 2: I think it would also be good to mention that reindexing the failed documents into the data stream does not remove the failures, so that needs to be done after the reindexing.
